Guides - how to configure Dependabot for TinaCMS (#3635)
tinacms/tina.io: content/docs/how-to-update-your-tina-version-with-dependabot.mdx

Reviewer: move from `docs` to `learn` section

* `tinacms`
* `@tinacms/cli`

To do that, just create a dependabot.yml file in your .github folder like this:

```yaml
# .github/dependabot.yml

version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "npm"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "daily"
    allow:
      - dependency-name: "tinacms"
      - dependency-name: "@tinacms/*"
```

> Note: You can find more information about the Dependabot config here: [Dependabot options reference](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/working-with-dependabot/dependabot-options-reference#about-the-dependabotyml-file)

This will tell Dependabot to create pull requests whenever any of those packages need to be updated.

## How to manage the Pull Requests

Now that you have your PR, you have 2 options

### Grouping updates in a single PR

By default, Dependabot opens a separate PR for each package.

Since TinaCMS packages often rely on each other, merging PRs individually can result in package.json versions that appear mismatched—even if the correct versions are resolved in the lockfile. This can prevent Dependabot from detecting actual code changes, leading to missed or incomplete updates.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: How To Update Your Tina Version With Dependabot
last_edited: '2025-06-24T15:41:58.484Z'
next: ''
previous: ''
---

If you're using GitHub, Dependabot can automatically keep your TinaCMS packages up-to-date by checking for new versions and opening PRs.

## Configuring Dependabot

You have 2 packages to keep an eye out for:

* `tinacms`
* `@tinacms/cli`

To do that, just create a dependabot.yml file in your .github folder like this:

```yaml
# .github/dependabot.yml

version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "npm"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "daily"
    allow:
      - dependency-name: "tinacms"

>       - dependency-name: "@tinacms*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - dependency-name: "@tinacms/*"
```

```

> > Note: You can find more information about the dependabot config here: [Dependabot options reference](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/working-with-dependabot/dependabot-options-reference#about-the-dependabotyml-file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: You can find more information about the Dependabot config here: [Dependabot options reference](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/working-with-dependabot/dependabot-options-reference#about-the-dependabotyml-file)
```

> By doing this, dependabot will create Pull Requests whenever one package is to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will tell Dependabot to create pull requests whenever any of those packages need to be updated.
```

## How to manage the Pull Requests

> Now that you have your PRs you have 2 options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have your PR, you have 2 options
```

> ### Individual PRs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Grouping updates in a single PR
```

> By default, dependabot opens a separate PR for each package.
> 
> As both TinaCMS packages depend on eachother this will lead to conflicts and potential mistakes when merging the PRs one by one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Dependabot opens a separate PR for each package.

Since TinaCMS packages often rely on each other, merging PRs individually can result in package.json versions that appear mismatched—even if the correct versions are resolved in the lockfile. This can prevent Dependabot from detecting actual code changes, leading to missed or incomplete updates.
```

> <Youtube caption="❌ Bad Example - Merging PRs one by one" embedSrc="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iDTZmTAczvA" />
> 
> ### Grouped PRs (recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
not a fan of embedding the YakShave since the video isn't good enough for public

> You can go the extra mile and updated your dependabot.yml config file to group Tina packages together in the same PR.

Reviewer: To fix this, update your dependabot.yml config to group TinaCMS packages into a single PR.

> You can go the extra mile and updated your dependabot.yml config file to group Tina packages together in the same PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix this, update your dependabot.yml config to group TinaCMS packages into a single PR.
```
